Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A: JDK stands for Java Development Kit.  It is composed of :
JRE- Java Runtime Environment
Compiler-Translates source code into bytecode
Debugger-This is for debugging and inspection of code.

What is IDE?
A: Integrated Development Environment. This is where the source code is written.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A: Popular IDEs include: Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Netbeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A: Source code is initially written in an IDE.  The source code is then transferred into byte code
via the Java Compiler.  Next, the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) which includes a Just in time Compiler, executes the
bytecodes.  This process of transferring source code into bytecodes allows Java Code to be run on many platforms.

What is class?
A: A class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A: An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A: The entry point of an application is the main method.

Why main is static?
A: Before any objects are made it is called by the JVM.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A: In an interface you can only declare methods.  In an abstract class you can implement
non-abstract methods and declare abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A: No.  You can instantiate the subclasses.


what is Access Specifier?
A: Can be public, private, or protected.  The access specifier determines the level of access to classes,
methods, fields, and constructors.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A:OOP stands for object oriented programming, it includes: Abstraction, Polymorphism, Encapsulation,
and Inheritance.  Abstraction is the hiding of implementation.  Polymorphism is the ability of an object to
take on many forms.  Encapsulation is data hiding.  Inheritance allows a class to inherit all of the characteristics
of a parent(also known as super) class.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A: API stands for Application programming interface.  Some of the API's that i have used fo far
include: BufferedReader API, String API and Scanner API.

Does java support multiple inheritance?
A: No, java does not support multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A: Method overloading happens in compile time.  Allows for multiple methods, sharing a common name.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A: Exceptions are a disruption in the execution of a program. This can be handled by the use of a try/catch block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A:  It allows variables and methods to be accessed without instantiation of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A:  Final is just how it sounds.  By using final, variables and methods are considered final,
they cannot be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A:  Final makes variables and methods unchangeable.  Finally places important code this code will be executed
with or without exception handling.  Finalize is used as clean up prior to garbage collection.

What is a constructor ?
A:  A constructor is a method that a initializes an object of a class.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A: Reference to a method or constructor being used.

What is "super" keyword in java?
A: A reference to a super class object.

What is JVM stand for ?
A: Java Virtual Machine

What version of java are you using?
A: 1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
A: Stands for Java Archive.

What is compile time and run time?
A: Compile time is the time when the code is being compiled.  Run time is when the program is being run.

What is heap?
A:  This is where memory from classes and arrays is stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A:  Using the heap.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A:  A String can't be changed once created.  StringBuffer can be changed.  StringBuilder is similar to
StringBuffer except for the fact that it is not thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
A: In OOP a singleton class that can only have one object at a time.
Uses a private constructor and a static method with the return type of Singleton Class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A: Serialization is the process on converting an object to a sequence of bytes that
is sent into a database.  Deserialization is the opposite process.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A: The same amount of memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A:  String is Immutable in Java to avoid the risk of a serious security issue.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A:  Calling on constructor from another.  This can be done using keywords like, "this"
and, "super."

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A: Serial garbage collector is for simple single threaded environments and small heaps.
Parallel Garbage Collector comes with the JVM and can process multiple threads.

What is JIT stands for?
A: Just In Time (Compiler)

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A:  Heap space is used when creating an object.  When an object is garbage collected it is sent back
into the Heap space.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A: Java comes with an automatic garbage collector.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A:  Stacks are used to store memory for local variables.  Heap memory is used to store objects.


